MIL-STD-105E

SAMPLING PROCEDURES AND TABLES
FOR INSPECTION BY ATTRIBUTES
1. SCOPE
1.1 Purpose. This publication establishes lot or batch sampling plans and procedures for
inspection by attributes. This publication shall not be interpreted to supercede or conflict
with any contractual requirements. The words "accept", "acceptance", "acceptable", etc,
refer only to the contractor's use of the sampling plans contained in this standard and do not
imply an agreement by the Government to accept any product. Determination of
acceptability by the Government shall be as described in contractual documents. The
sampling plans described in this standard are applicable to AQL's of .01 percent or higher
and are therefore not suitable for applications where quality levels in the defective parts per
million range can be realized.
1.2 Application. Sampling plans designated in this publication are applicable, but not limited,
to inspection of the following:
a. End items.
b. Components and raw materials.
c. Operations or services.
d. Materials in process.
e. Supplies in storage.
f. Maintenance operations.
g. Data or records.
h. Administrative procedures.
These plans are intended primarily to be used for a continuing series of lots or batches. The
plans may also be used for the inspection of isolated lots or batches, but, in this latter case,
the user is cautioned to consult the operating characteristic curves to find a plan which will
yield the desired protection (See 4.11).
2. REFERENCED DOCUMENTS
2.1 Not applicable.
3. DEFINITIONS
3.1 Acceptable Quality Level (AQL). When a continuous series of lots is considered, the AQL
is the quality level which, for the purposes of sampling inspection, is the limit of a
satisfactory process average (See 3.19).
NOTE: A sampling plan and an AQL are chosen in accordance with the risk assumed. Use
of a value of AQL for a certain defect or group of defects indicates that the sampling plan
will accept the great majority of the lots or batches provided the process average level of
percent defective (or defects per hundred units) in these lots or batches be no greater than
the designated value of AQL. Thus, the AQL is a designated value of percent defective (or
defects per hundred units) for which lots will be accepted most of the time by the sampling
procedure being used. The sampling plans provided herein are so arranged that the
probability of acceptance at the designated AQL value depend upon the sample size, being
generally higher for large samples than for small ones, for a given AQL. The AQL alone
does not identify the chances of accepting or rejecting individual lots or batches but more
directly relates to what might be expected from a series of lots or batches, provided the steps
indicated in this publication are taken. It is necessary to refer to the operating characteristic
curve of the plan to determine the relative risks.
3.2 Average Outgoing Quality (AOQ). For a particular process average, the AOQ is the
average quality of outgoing product including all accepted lots or batches, plus all rejected
lots or batches after the rejected lots or batches have been effectively 100 percent inspected
and all defectives replaced by non-defectives.
3.3 Average Outgoing Quality Limit (AOQL). The AOQL is the maximum AOQ for a given
acceptance sampling plan. Factors for computing AOQL values are given in Table V-A for
each of the single sampling plans for normal inspection and in Table V-B for each of the
single sampling plans for tightened inspection.
3.4 Classification of Defects. A classification of defects is the enumeration of possible defects
of the unit of product classified according to their seriousness.
3.5 Critical Defect. A critical defect is a defect that judgement and experience indicate would
result in hazardous or unsafe conditions for individuals using, maintaining, or depending
upon the product, or a defect that judgement and experience indicate is likely to prevent
performance of the tactical function of a major end item such as a ship, aircraft, tank,
missile, or space vehicle.
3.6 Critical Defective. A critical defective is a unit of product, which contains one or more
critical defects and may also contain major and/or minor defects.
3.7 Defect. A defect is any nonconformance of the unit of product with specified requirements.
3.8 Defective. A defective is a unit of product which contains one or more defects.
3.9 Defects per Hundred Units. The number of defects per hundred units of any given quantity
of units of product is one hundred times the number of defects contained therein (one or
more defects being possible in any unit of product) divided by the total number of units of
product, i.e.:
Defects per Number of defects x 100
hundred units = Number of units inspected
3.10. Inspection. Inspection is the process of measuring, examining, testing, or otherwise
comparing the unit of product with the requirements.
3.11. Inspection by Attributes. Inspection by attributes is inspection whereby either the unit of
product is classified simply as defective or non-defective, or the number of defects in the
unit of product is counted, with the respect to a given requirement or set of requirements.
3.12. Lot or Batch. The term lot or batch shall mean 'inspection lot' or "inspection batch", i.e., a
collection of units of product from which a sample is to be drawn and inspected and may
differ from a collection of units designated as a lot or batch for other purposes (e.g.,
production, shipment, etc.).
3.13. Lot or Batch Size. The lot or batch size is the number of units of product in a lot or batch.
3.14. Major Defect. A major defect is a defect, other than critical, that is likely to result in a
failure, or to reduce materially the usability of the unit of product for its intended purpose.
3.15. Major Defective. A major defective is a unit of product, which contains one or more
major defects, and may also contain minor defects but contains no critical defect.
3.16. Minor Defect. A minor defect is a defect that is not likely to reduced materially the
usability of the unit of product for its intended purpose, or is a departure from established
standards having little bearing on the effective use or operation of the unit.
3.17. Minor Defective. A minor defective is a unit of product, which contains one or more
minor defects but contains no critical or major defect.
3.18 Percent Defective. The percent defective of any given quantity of units of product is one
hundred times the number of defective units of product contained therein divided by the
total number of units of product, i.e.:
Number of defectives x 100 Percent Defective = Number of units inspected
3.19 Process Average. The process average is the average percent defective or average number
of defects per hundred units (whichever is applicable) of product submitted by the supplier
for original inspection. Original inspection is the first inspection of a particular quantity of
product as distinguished from the inspection of product which has been resubmitted after
prior rejection.
3.20 Sample. A sample consists of one or more units of product drawn from a lot or batch, the
units of the sample being selected at random without regard to their quality. The number
of units of product in the sample is the sample size.
3.21 Sample Size Code Letter. The sample size code letter is a devise used along with the AQL
for locating a sampling plan on a table of sampling plans.
3.22 Sampling Plan. A sampling plan indicates the number of units of product from each lot or
batch which are to be inspected (sample size or series of sample sizes) and the criteria for
determining the acceptability of the lot or batch (acceptance and rejection numbers).
3.23 Unit of Product. The unit of product is the thing inspected in order to determine its
classification as defective or non-defective or to count the number of defects. It may be a
single article, a pair, a set, a length, an area, and operation, a volume, a component of an
end product, or the end product itself. The unit of product may or may not be the same as
the unit of purchase, supply, production, or shipment.
4. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
4.1 Written Procedures. Written procedures are ordinarily developed and made available for the
Government representative's review, upon request. When the written procedures indicate
use of this standard, they shall comply with the requirements of this standard and reference
appropriate parts as necessary.
4.2 Nonconformance. The extent of nonconformance of product shall be expressed either in
terms of percent defective or in terms of defects per hundred units.
4.3 Formation and Identification of Lots or Batches. The product shall be assembled into
identifiable lots, sublots, batches, or in such other manner as may be prescribed. Each lot or
batch shall, as far as is practicable, consist of units of product of a single type, grade, class,
size, and composition, manufactured under essentially the same conditions, and at
essentially the same time. The lots or batches shall be identified by the contractor and shall
be kept intact in adequate and suitable storage space.
4.4 AQL.
4.4.1 AQL Use. The AQL, together with the Sample Size Code Letter, is used for indexing
the sampling plans provided herein.
4.4.2 Limitation. The selection or use of an AQL shall not imply that the contractor has the
right to supply an defective unit of product.
4.4.3 Choosing AQL's. Different AQLs may be chosen for groups of defects considered
collectively, or for individual defects. An AQL for a group of defects may be chose in
addition to AQLs for individual defects, or subgroups, within that group. AQL values of
10.0 or less may be expressed either in percent defective or in defects per hundred units;
those over 10.0 shall be expressed in defects per hundred units only.
4.5 Sampling.
4.5.1 Representative (Stratified) Sampling. When appropriate, the number of units in the
sample shall be selected in proportion to the size of sublots or sub-batches, or parts of the
lot or batch, identified by some rational criterion. When representative sampling is used,
the units from each sublot, sub-batch or part of the lot or batch shall be selected at
random.
4.5.2 Time of Sampling. A sample may be drawn after all units comprising the lot or batch
have been assembled, or sample units may be drawn during assembly of the lot or batch,
in which case the size of the lot or batch will be determined before any sample units are
drawn. If the sample units are drawn during assembly of the lot or batch, and if the
rejection number is reached before the lot is completed, that portion of the lot already
completed shall be rejected. The cause of the defective product shall be determined and
corrective action taken, after which a new lot or batch shall be begun.
4.5.3 Double or Multiple Sampling. When double or multiple sampling is to be used, each
sample shall be selected over the entire lot or batch.
4.6 Inspection Procedures. Normal inspection will be used at the start of inspection. Normal,
tightened or reduced inspection shall continue unchanged for each class of defects or
defectives on successive lots or batches except where the switching procedures given below
require change. The switching procedures shall be applied to each class of defects or
defectives independently.
4.7 Switching Procedures.
4.7.1 Normal to Tightened. When normal inspection is in effect, tightened inspection shall be
instituted when 2 out of 2, 3, 4, or 5 consecutive lots or batches have been rejected on
original inspection (i.e., ignoring resubmitted lots or batches for this procedure).
4.7.2 Tightened to Normal. When tightened inspection is in effect, normal inspection shall be
instituted when 5 consecutive lots or batches have been considered acceptable on original
inspection.
4.7.3 Normal to Reduced. When normal inspection is in effect, reduced inspection shall be
instituted provided that all of the following conditions are satisfied:
a. The preceding 10 lots or batches (or more, as indicated by the note to Table VIII)
have been on normal inspection and all have been accepted on original inspection;
and
b. The total number of defectives (or defects) in the samples from the preceding 10 lots
or batches (or such other number as was used for condition "a" above) is equal to or
less than the applicable number given in Table VIII. If double or multiple sampling
is in use, all samples inspected should be included, not "first" samples only; and
c. Production is at a steady rate; and
d. Reduced inspection is considered desirable.
4.7.4 Reduced to Normal. When reduced inspection is in effect, normal inspection shall be
instituted if any of the following occur on original inspection:
a. A lot or batch is rejected; or
b. A lot or batch is considered acceptable under the procedures of 4.10.1.4, or
c. Production becomes irregular or delayed; or
d. Other conditions warrant that normal inspection shall be instituted.
4.8 Discontinuation of Inspection. If the cumulative number of lots not accepted in a sequence
of consecutive lots on original tightened inspection reaches five, the acceptance procedures
of this standard shall be discontinued. Inspection under the provisions of this standard shall
not be resumed until corrective action has been taken. Tightened inspection shall then be
used as if 4.7.1 had been invoked.
4.9 Sampling Plans.
4.9.1 Inspection Level. The inspection level determines the relationship between the lot or
batch size and the sample size. The inspection level to be used for any particular
requirement will be as prescribed by the contractor's written procedures. Three
inspection levels: I, II, and III, are given in Table I for general use (see 4.1). Normally,
Inspection Level II is used. However, Inspection Level I may be used when less
discrimination is needed, or Level III may be used for greater discrimination. Four
additional special levels: S-1, S-2, S-3, and S-4, are given in the same table and may be
used where relatively small sample sizes are necessary and large sampling risks can or
must be tolerated.
NOTE: In the selection of inspection levels S-1 to S-4, care must be exercised to avoid
AQLs inconsistent with these inspection levels. In other words, the purpose of the
special inspection levels is to keep samples small when necessary. For instance, the code
letters under S-1 go no further than D, equivalent to a single sample of size 8, but it is of
no use to choose S-1 if the AQL is 0.10 percent for which the minimum sample is 125.
4.9.2 Code Letters. Sample sizes are designated by code letters. Table I shall be used to find
the applicable code letter for the particular lot or batch size and the prescribed inspection
level.
4.9.3 Obtaining Sample Plan. The AQL and the code letter shall be used to obtain the
sampling plan from Tables II, III, or IV. When no sampling plan is available for a given
combination of AQL and code letter, the tables direct the user to a different letter. The
sample size to be used is given by the new code letter, not by the original letter. If this
procedure leads to different sample sizes for different classes of defects, the code letter
corresponding to the largest sample size derived may be used for all classes of defects.
As an alternative to a single sampling plan with an acceptance number of 9, the plan with
an acceptance number of 1, with its correspondingly larger sample size for a designated
AQL (where available), may be used.
4.9.4 Types of Sampling Plans. Three types of sampling plans: Single, Double, and Multiple,
are given in Tables II, III, and IV, respectively. When several types of plans are
available for a given AQL and code letter, any one may be used. A decision as to type of
plan, either single, double, or multiple, when available for a given AQL and code letter,
will usually be based upon the comparison between the administrative difficulty and the
average sample sizes of the available plans. The average sample size of multip0le plans
is less than for double (except in the case corresponding to a single acceptance number 1)
and both of these are always less than a single sample size (see Table IX). Usually the
administrative difficulty for single sampling and the cost per unit of the sample are less
than for double or multiple.
4.10 Determination of Acceptability
4.10.1 Percent Defective Inspection. To determine acceptability of a lot or batch under percent
defective inspection, the applicable sampling plan shall be used in accordance with
4.10.1.1, 4.10.1.2, 4.10.1.3, and 4.10.1.4.
4.10.1.1 Single Sampling Plan. The number of sample units inspected shall be equal to the
sample size given by the plan. If the number of defectives found in the sample is
equal to or less than acceptance number, the lot or batch shall be considered
acceptable. If the number of defectives is equal to or greater than the rejection
number, the lot or batch shall be rejected.
4.10.1.2 Double Sampling Plan. A number of sample units equal to the first sample size given
by the plan shall be inspected. If the number of defectives found in the first sample is
equal to or less than the first acceptance number, the lot or batch shall be considered
acceptable. If the number of defectives found in the first sample is equal to or greater
than the first rejection number, the lot or batch shall be rejected. If the number of
defectives found in the first sample is between the first acceptance and rejection
numbers, a second sample of the same size shall be inspected. The number of
defectives found in the first and second samples shall be accumulated. If the
cumulative number of defectives is equal to or less than the second acceptance
number, the lot or batch shall be considered acceptable. If the cumulative number of
defectives is equal to or greater than the second rejection number, the lot or batch
shall be rejected.
4.10.1.3 Multiple Sample Plan. Under multiple sampling, the procedure shall be similar to
that specified in 4.10.1.2, except that the number of successive samples required to
reach a decision may be as many as seven.
4.10.1.4 Special Procedure for Reduced Inspection. Under reduced inspection, the sampling
procedure may terminate without either acceptance or rejection criteria having been
met. In these circumstances, the lot or batch will be considered acceptable, but
normal inspection will be reinstated starting with the next lot or batch (see 4.7.4.b).
4.10.2 Defects per Hundred Units Inspection. To determine the acceptability of a lot or batch
under defects per hundred units inspection, the procedure specified for percent defective
inspection above shall be used, except that the word "defects" shall be substituted for
"defectives".
4.11 Limiting Quality Protection. The sample plans and associated procedures given in this
publication were designed for use where the units of product are produced in a
continuing series of lots or batches over a period of time. However, if the lot or batch is
of an isolated nature, it is desirable to limit the selection of sampling plans to those,
associated with a designated AQL value, that provide not less than a specified limiting
quality protection. Sampling plans for this purpose can be selected by choosing a
Limiting Quality (LQ) and a consumer's risk to be associated with it. Tables VI and VII
give values of LQ for the commonly used consumer's risks of 10 percent and 5 percent
respectively. If a different value of consumer's risks is required, the O.C. curves and
their tabulated values may be used. The concept of LQ may also be useful in specifying
the AQL and Inspection Levels for a series off lots or batches, thus fixing minimum
sample size where there is some reason for avoiding (with more than a given consumer's
risk) more than a limiting proportion of defectives (or defects) in any single lot or batch.
4.12 Curves
4.12.1 Operating Characteristic Curves. The operating characteristic curves for normal
inspection, shown in Table X, indicate the percentage of lots or batches which may be
expected to be accepted under the various sampling plans for a given process quality.
The curves shown are for single sampling; curves for double and multiple sampling are
matched as closely as practicable. The O.C. curves shown for AQLs greater than 10.0
are based on the Poisson distribution and are applicable for defects per hundred units
inspection; those for AQLs of 10.0 or less and sample sizes of 80 or less are based on the
binomial distribution and are applicable for percent defective inspection; those for AQLs
of 10.0 or less and sample sizes larger than 80 are based on the Poisson distribution and
are applicable either for defects per hundred units of inspection, or for percent defective
inspection (the Poisson distribution being an adequate approximation to the binomial
distribution under these conditions). Tabulated values, corresponding to selected values
or probabilities of acceptance (Pa, in percent) are given for each of the curves show, and,
in addition, for tightened inspection, and for defects per hundred units for AQLs of 10.0
or less and sample sizes of 80 or less.
4.12.2 Average Sample Size Curves. Average sample size curves for double and multiple
samples are in Table IX. These show the average sample sizes, which may be expected
to occur under the various sampling plans for given levels of process quality. The curves
assume no curtailment of inspection and are approximate to the extend that they are
based upon the Poisson distribution, and that the sample sizes for double and multiple
sampling are assumed to be 0.631n and 0.25n respectively, where n is the equivalent
sample size.
